---
layout: post
title: How I Came To Bloc
feature-img: 
---

* When I left high school, I wanted to be an engineer. I figured I was good at physics and math, and engineering is where those two best met. I took a job working for a civil engineering firm as a lab tech. I did experiements on soil to determine its properties and provide data for the engineers. I spent a lot of time working with and observing civil engineers and the types of things they spent their time on. On occasion the engineers might consult me for help on a special experiement they needed to design, and I loved coming up with creative solutions to problems with no one correct answer. I was also taking college classes at the same time and had my first programming class as a requirement for engineering. It was a C++ for Engineering class. I got my first ever experience with code and found myself looking forward to the homework as an opportunity to create something, a puzzle to be solved, a game to be won. The teachers taught programming as a tool that engineers could use for data processing, so proper form wasn't emphasized. The class wasn't designed to lead into anything, so I didn't go any farther with it for a while.

* It was only a year or so before a friend offered me a job logging oil wells. It was a full time job with traveling so I was forced to put my schooling on hold. I got more time around engineers though. The oil industry is ripe with engineers from all fields and walks of life. I worked with mechanical, electrical, and petroleum engineers constantly. The more I was around engineers, the more I kept thinking about my brief time with programming and began to reconsider what I wanted. As soon as work slowed down, I started up classes again and immediately took an intro to Python. My previous teachers were engineers who only cared about function, and not form, so it was quite the surprise to my old codes were extremely ugly. They're nearly unreadable actually. My teacher was a professional programmer for a long time and didn't believe there was any excuse for bad form. He drilled into me the need for code to be legible and efficient. From there I took a Java class and began doing my work faster than the teacher could assign them, I craved more difficult challenges. College classes felt to disjointed and slow for me. I began thinking about persuing a different approach to my education.

* I spent a lot of time researching the viability of becoming a programmer without a finishing a degree. I met and discussed this with a couple friends and acquaintinces who had done that very thing. I concluded that it is very possible if I was willing to study hard enough to get there. Then I started finding these Programming Boot Camps that were being advertised, but they mainly were only for intros to web design and I wanted to go all the way and be a software developer. It was then that I discovered Bloc and learned that it offered that very thing. With incredible ratings, and a learning system that intrigued me, I took some of the money I'd saved from my oil field job and took the risk. Now here I am developing my own personal blog and have written several complete applications. I had no idea even a year ago that this is what I was going to do, but I'm glad this is the direction I've decided to take. Programming has become my love and I plan to stick with it for the rest of my life.